---
layout: post
title:  "DDD - what is it?"
date:   2020-05-07 11:50:52 +0100
categories: blog
permalink: /blog/ddd
---
### DDD - what is it? 

DDD is a shortcut for [Domain-driven Design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-driven_design).
I don't fully agree with definition given by Wikipedia. To me DDD is more subjective and is more like 
Clean Code or Agile. We more or less know what it is, but it is very different how given teams implement this.

I must admit, that I struggled with understanding of DDD for quite a long time. It was not easy even after 
reading `Domain-driven design` by Eric Evans. There is another book that I highly recommend reading: `Implementing 
Domain-driven design` by Vaughn Vernon. Problem I had after reading those books was that I was so focused on code 
that I did not catch what is the key.

DDD to me is a set of principles that software should be build with. The main goal for any software 
is to solve real problems, be response for given need. For example, `Todo list` app - helps people to organise stuff
and keep not forgetting about things.

#### What practises DDD comes with?
I will try to iterate few, I think are most important.

* `understand it` - understanding of business domain, make sure you understand the business domain, do some exercises like 
[event-storming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event_storming)
* `name it` - ubiquitous language, software and business should speak the same language, no exceptions, translations, mappings
* `identify context` - be aware of context, some domains are quite huge, we need to be aware what context we are in
* `craft it` - write clean code oriented on the domain, make sure your code is clean and oriented around the business domain,
avoid [anemia](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/AnemicDomainModel.html), build good API - regardless of the architecture
(monolithic, microservices, ...) 
* `revise it` - revise your business and make sure that you understand only constant thing in the world `CHANGE`, adapt to it

#### What we can do? 
Don't worry, stay calm, practise, focus on business, ask questions, repeat.

