---
layout: post
title: "DDD"
author: "Rafal Machnik"
categories: blog
tags: [DDD]
image: brayce-3.jpg
---
### DDD - what is it? 

DDD is a shortcut for [Domain-driven Design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-driven_design).
I don't fully agree with definition given by Wikipedia. To me DDD is more subjective and is more like 
Clean Code or Agile. We more or less know what it is, but it is very different how given teams implement this.

I must admit, that I struggled with understanding of DDD for quite a long time. It was not easy even after 
reading `Domain-driven design` by Eric Evans. There is another book that I highly recommend reading: `Implementing 
Domain-driven design` by Vaughn Vernon. Problem I had after reading those books was that I was so focused on code 
that I did not catch what is the key.

DDD to me is a set of principles that software should be build with. The main goal for any software 
is to solve real problems, be response for given need. For example, `Todo list` app - helps people to organise stuff
and keep not forgetting about things.

#### What practises DDD comes with?
I will try to iterate few, I think are most important.

* `understand it` - understanding of business domain, make sure you understand the business domain, do some exercises like 
[event storming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event_storming)
* `name it` - ubiquitous language, software and business should speak the same language, no exceptions, translations, mappings
* `identify context` - be aware of context, some domains are quite huge, we need to be aware what context we are in
* `craft it` - write clean code oriented on the domain, make sure your code is clean and oriented around the business domain,
avoid [anemia](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/AnemicDomainModel.html), build good API - regardless of the architecture
(monolithic, microservices, ...) 
* `revise it` - revise your business and make sure you understand only constant thing in the world **CHANGE**, adapt to it

#### Why I do prefer to work with DDD?
Because it brings a value? Where is the value?

If we stay close to business language it is much easier to capture real behaviour, change it, adapt and not create artificial
functionalities.

Moreover, the time I work within the team. It means I am not th only one working with the code. This being said the only way
I am able to understand this is to keep it connected to the business as much as possible. It protects the team to 
work efficiently and progress with functionalities without hacking. If there is a time when we think of introducing 
`a hack` or same `code smell` it is a right time to rethink the domain and do step back.

#### What we can do? 
Don't worry, stay calm, practise, focus on business, ask questions, repeat.

